Australian Society of Archivists conference 2018
================================================

*2018 September 25–28, Perth.*

day1:

Spoke to Sally Culvert from Roebourne.

Hudson Molonglo. Archives space. piers 

Let others know what's in the archive. Document what you've got, and publish it.
Australian Series system: separate descriptions of agencies (that created) from the record descriptions.
Manage at different levels of aggregation. People not familiar with archives, work too much at lowest item level.
Context entities: creators, businesses, etc. documented before the records, and linked to latter by relationships.
Maintain original order.
Series can link to multiple entities; complex provenance. it's a database, not a document-based finding aid.
Custody and location can be managed separately. 
Series, consignments. Items, sub-items.
Series is the result of an original activity or accumulation process. Must be retained.
Is it okay to create artificial 'series'? What's the risk? What will be lost? How much effort will it require.

Processes will be done again, when a new system comes in 5-7 years.

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zGRcI3quZthE389MQYgCnuDKfXjtnX4BuLh_yUe_OnM/edit#gid=1600082565

Complex processes, e.g transfers, publishing, trove support.

Lower score for self-hosting; does that mean non-cloud?

Key parts of the platform: open source, cloud, and SaaS.

"Open source is free as in speech, *not* free as in beer" becuase it takes your time.

Series template:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-hprbEihO4pMtGXcBRlXxJzCRO3-RYpzJ_lystM9q2o/edit#gid=835400512

