---
id: 2292
title: I now use curly quotation marks when proofreading
date: 2015-04-17T15:46:48+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=2292
permalink: /2015/04/17/mr-curly/
dsq_thread_id:
  - "3899136900"
categories:
  - Reading
tags:
  - ebooks
  - GITenberg
  - hyperlinks
  - links
  - Project Gutenberg
  - proofreading
  - quotation marks
  - typesetting
  - Wikimedia
  - Wikisource
---
There are currently two things that are annoying me about Wikisource books. These are: the inclusion of hyperlinks (to be all 1990s about it, with using that word); and the usage of straight quotation marks.

Links I can forgive, or even actively enjoy, in non-fiction; but in fiction, they have no place. (So think I, anyway.) Especially when they link to a sodding _dictionary_ term! I _know_ how to look up a word I don&#8217;t know. Sigh.

The curly-vs-straight argument is an odd one. We only have straight ones thanks to typewriters (or their manufacturers, I guess) not wanting to have two [sorts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sort_%28typesetting%29 "(It's like a metal, real-world, glyph)") for each type of quotation mark. So why we persist I cannot say! No, I _can_ say&#8230; it&#8217;s mostly to do with ease of typing, on common systems, I think. It&#8217;s annoying to type the opening and the closing glyphs, when there&#8217;s only one button on the keyboard. But really! That _might_ hold sway where there&#8217;s no automatic system for handling these things, but we _have_ those systems and they work admirably. And certainly, when it comes to typesetting books that are going to be read by (we hope) very many people, it&#8217;s worth putting a bit more effort in to make them look nice.

Because that&#8217;s what it&#8217;s about, ultimately: making the text beautiful! For how many hundreds of years have people been taking terrific care over making books look nice?! Let&#8217;s not give up on that.

I&#8217;m not really sure why I&#8217;m writing this, today. (Probably due to the glass of White Rabbit I&#8217;ve just here.) It&#8217;s that I&#8217;m firing with the zeal of the converted! I am, you see. I used to not care about quotes, and think they should be left straight &#8212; now, I stand on speakers&#8217; corner and holler to confused passersby!

So, would that ye enjoy yr ebooks?! Then set them with loveliness!

_Right&#8230; where&#8217;s that beer&#8230;_