---
id: 1473
title: My new Kobo Mini
date: 2013-03-25T20:26:09+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1473
permalink: /2013/03/25/kobo/
views:
  - "13999"
dsq_thread_id:
  - "3857935981"
categories:
  - Reading
tags:
  - ebooks
  - ereaders
  - Kobo
  - Kobo Mini
  - Linux
  - reviews
  - syncing
  - Ubuntu
---
Today I bought a Kobo Mini ereader. It’s lovely: small and simple, feeling light and nice to touch. It’s got an on button on the top edge, and a USB plug on the bottom; the rest is screen, bezel, and back (the latter two of a sort of micro-fluffy textured plastic). So far, so good.

I bought it because I want to read Wikisource texts offline and away from the computer, and I don’t like the idea of continuing to print them out. It’s nice to proofread on paper, perhaps, but then carrying A4 pages around in manilla folders isn’t very good (for reading on the bus and whatnot). I don’t think it’s too hard to make notes about corrections in my notepad, so long as I give a suitable amount of context.

Anyway, the second thing about the Mini, after it’s pleasing appearance: it won’t _work_ until it’s been ‘activated’! What on earth’s the point of that, other than to attempt to force me into buying books from some particular company or other?! Ridiculous! However, do it I must, if I want to read anything else — so I registered, and stumbled around in the Kobo Desktop application…

At first it looked like it mightn’t actually be possible to just copy the files I wanted to the device (despite it most sensibly mounting as a little external storage thingo), but it turned out that one must _first_ activate it and then copy files to it, in order for them to be recognised. The file I’d copied before activation was ignored, but then after copying another there it kicked it into action and both were listed in the main menu. A relief.

So: all working on Ubuntu now, and I’ll report back in a few weeks on the actual readish fun of the thing….

* * *

**Update:** I wrote [some more about my Kobo](http://samwilson.id.au/2013/07/27/kobo-2) in July.