---
id: 1181
title: rsync.net
date: 2012-07-22T14:00:16+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1181
permalink: /2012/07/22/rsync/
views:
  - "4832"
categories:
  - Programming
tags:
  - backups
  - cloud storage
  - Linux
  - offsite
  - rsync.net
  - Subversion
  - svn
---
I signed up for an [rsync.net](http://rsync.net) account a bit over a month ago. They&#8217;re a reasonably-priced off-site filesystem provider, seemingly run by people who care about _security_ and _doing things normally_. By &#8216;normally&#8217;, I mean `rsync` for starters (oddly enough, given their name) but also the whole gammut of *nix-y ways of doing things; one can interact with them with the usual tools. So they provide a proper, old-fashioned filesystem, and protect it well (there&#8217;s even a [warrent](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warrant_canary "Wikipedia article about 'warrant canaries'") [canary](http://www.rsync.net/resources/notices/canary.txt "rsync.net's warranet canary, including up-to-date news headlines")). There&#8217;s a choice of datacentre &mdash; I chose the Zurich one &mdash; and plans ranging from 7GB (80c/GB/month) to 10TB (8c/GB/month). They even correspond via email, of all things! It really is odd that a company that behaves so _normally_ is so uncommon&hellip;. I don&#8217;t care about pretty graphics, boring and unused extra features, or &#8216;enterprise-readiness&#8217; (whatever the flip that is), I just want a share of some disk in a big strong building somewhere, one that&#8217;s going to be protected and maintained properly and simply. All I can say so far is three cheers for rsync.net. (I&#8217;ll be sure to report back if my opinion changes.)

So that&#8217;s all well and good, and I&#8217;ve got my big disk in the sky, but _how_ am I going to use it? I am going to host a Subversion repository there, to serve as an everything-bucket. That is all. How well will `svn` handle a huge (multi-gigabyte) repository? I&#8217;ve heard varying reports, but most seem to think it&#8217;ll be fine. Certainly it&#8217;s data-copying system will work well, as far as resuming aborted connections goes (it&#8217;ll only copy what&#8217;s not yet been copied; much as rsync.net does (although I don&#8217;t think it does it at any smaller unit than that of the whole file)). Questions remain about how much overhead diskspace I&#8217;ll waste by doing this, but as most of the binary files will only be modified at most once or twice, and generally not at all once they&#8217;re checked-in, I don&#8217;t think it&#8217;ll matter too much.

I&#8217;ll see how things go.