---
id: 1938
title: Corduran freedoms
date: 2011-10-04T17:25:50+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1938
permalink: /2011/10/04/brain-bag/
views:
  - "190"
categories:
  - Exploring
tags:
  - bags
  - Brain Bag
  - Tom Bihn
  - walking
---
My new bag came today! It&#8217;s totally brilliant. It&#8217;s a _Brain Bag_, from Tom Bihn, and I got a brace of extras with it (which is more than a &#8216;pile&#8217;, and tied together&#8230; isn&#8217;t it?). I was wondering just now whether it was too big — but no, then I saw the bus coming around the Winterfold Road corner, and had to run, and so I hitched up all the straps, and legged it — and it felt snug and good and secure, and hardly moved an inch as I lept through the traffic. So huzza for Tom Bihn! Here I come, World, with my laptop and all else for _wandering-et-recording_. Brill-o for leggy freedom.

Egghh. Again, I ask for your reading allowance, with today&#8217;s post. I&#8217;d gotten home, tired, and wanted a small corner in which to sit and sip a beer. And I was granted such a thing, in the new front room, and a platter of cheese on which to snack, and well, then there was the bus-running moment, and the bus-driver friendliness (and his damnation of a passing motorist to stir things up!), and what can I say but that all is t&#8217;riffic with the world? Not much indeed.

* * *

Stone flicked through my journal the other day, and couldn&#8217;t find himself featuring as greatly as perhaps he&#8217;d hoped. And nor will he, the bally footballeroonie! What&#8217;ve I to say of he?! Nothing, given the snorting and gufawing that goes on when he reads (or bothers to read) my blog. Ha! Nothing! You hear me?!

* * *

(And one last note, before toddling onwards.) The wifi in Kings Square seems much faster than it used to, this evening. Good work, Freo Council! I throw packets at your TCP/IP with fervent abandon, and salute your electromagnetic gusto!