---
id: 1630
title: Point Counter Point, by Aldous Huxley
date: 2011-02-25T21:16:16+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1630
permalink: /2011/02/25/huxley/
views:
  - "140"
categories:
  - Reading
tags:
  - Aldus Huxley
  - books
  - Point Counter Point
  - quotations
  - Reading
---
> &#8216;[&#8230;] The first step would be to make people live dualistically, in two compartments. In one compartment as industrialized workers, in the other as human beings. As idiots and machines for eight hours out of every twenty-four and real human beings for the rest.&#8217;
> 
> &#8216;Don&#8217;t they do that already?&#8217;
> 
> &#8216;Of course they don&#8217;t. They live as idiots and machines all the time, at work and in their leisure. Like idiots and machines, but imagining they&#8217;re living like civilized humans, even like gods. The first thing to do is to make them admit that they are idiots and machines during working hours. &#8220;Our civilization being what it is,&#8221; this is what you&#8217;ll have to say to them, &#8220;you&#8217;ve got to spend eight hours out of every twenty-four as a mixture between an imbecile and a sewing machine. It&#8217;s very disagreeable, I know. It&#8217;s humiliating and disgusting. But there you are. You&#8217;ve got to do it; otherwise the whole fabric of our world will fall to bits and we&#8217;ll all starve. Do the job, then, idiotically and mechanically; and spend your leisure hours in being a real complete man or woman, as the case may be. Don&#8217;t mix the two lives together; keep the bulkheads watertight between them. The genuine human life in your leisure hours is the real thing. The other&#8217;s just a dirty job that&#8217;s got to be done. And never forget that it _is_ dirty and, except in so far as it keeps you fed and society intact, utterly unimportant, utterly irrelevant to the real human life. [&#8230;]&#8217; 

pp. 417-418. _Point Counter Point_ by Aldous Huxley. Chatto & Windus, London 1947.