---
id: 1610
title: Semantic MediaWiki and Me
date: 2010-11-04T16:59:19+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1610
permalink: /2010/11/04/smw/
views:
  - "624"
categories:
  - Programming
tags:
  - Semantic MediaWiki
  - wikis
---
Stone was right, that photo I posted last night of Sol-R was rubbish. I appologise. But I make no claims to be any sort of a photographer other than one who records the _existence_ of things, and not their particular light-patterns. The [photographic collection of 20th century telegraph poles](http://www.utilityasset.com.au) notwithstanding, of course.

Which brings me to [Semantic MediaWiki](http://semantic-mediawiki.org). Or, it doesn&#8217;t really, but through some elongated and multi-noded decision tree it does. I am trying to set SMW set up on the [FS site](http://fremantlesociety.org.au/wiki/Special:Version), and it&#8217;s doing funny things to my head. I even had _dreams_ about it last night! A strange feeling of being unable to bootstrap the whole show: one must set up these data entities (the templates; am I right here?), each comprising some number of properties, and without which it&#8217;s odd to set up other entities whose properties are of this entity&#8217;s type. Agh. Sleepy brain can&#8217;t handle!

Of course, the main problem is that I&#8217;m used to building data models in &#8216;proper&#8217; programming languages, and SMW — or, rather, MediaWiki, with it&#8217;s horrible syntax, that I can see I&#8217;m just going to have to force myself to love — is a fairly different way of thinking. It&#8217;s not vastly different, because still we&#8217;re buiding a classic (as in, class-ic, or &#8216;of class&#8217;, as a lecturer of mine used to be fond of distincting [is that a word?]) system, where entities have properties, and those properties have types, and those types are entities. The weird part of it is that wiki pages define all of these, _and_ they define the data!

The point that I&#8217;m getting to is that this should make _more sense_ to an OOP programmer than more common ways of doing this. Because an object of a class encapsulates behaviour, structure, _and_ data! So where&#8217;s my data in a Java app? In the flippin&#8217; _database_! And in SMW? Right there: with the structure and behav&#8230; oh, hang on&#8230; this isn&#8217;t a programming language. It has aspects of one. But by gosh it&#8217;s annoying to code in&#8230;.

Well. I didn&#8217;t think that out too carefully did I? A vaunting of SMW as somehow making more intuitive sense than a proper language? Silly me. I&#8217;m just getting tied up in all that persistent object storage stuff, and I don&#8217;t feel up to that on a Thursday (Thursdays are for visiting friends and having a little something, after all!) so I shall give up now.

I&#8217;ll get back to building a coming-events-calendar on the FS wiki, which, it turns out, is not such a complicated business after all.