---
id: 256
title: Coding; Quakerism; and a Boring Title
date: 2008-11-05T14:52:08+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/blog/?p=256
permalink: /2008/11/05/honesty/
views:
  - "295"
categories:
  - Programming
tags:
  - Addressbook plugin
  - coding
  - God
  - honesty
  - Quakerism
---
I had hoped to be able to post an announcement today about a new version of the Addressbook plugin, but unfortunately it&#8217;s not quite ready.  I&#8217;ve done a bit of fiddling (this will only add 0.0.1 to the version after all), and have just a little more to do.  _Then_ I will get on with some actually useful coding — import/export, user images, custom fields, etc.

I am planning on writing a user script for [Operator](http://www.kaply.com/weblog/operator/ "Mike’s Musings: Operator Extension for Firefox"), so that contacts from anywhere on the web can be imported into a WordPress addressbook with just one click (only one contact at a time, at the moment).  Won&#8217;t that be grand?  Ha.

Have I done anything else with my day?  Thought of anything, seen anything, to warrant a blog post?!  No.  Not really.  But this _is_ Nablopomo, and so I don&#8217;t feel so bad.

<p style="text-align:center">
  * * *
</p>

I note that [Emily](http://lighttraveller.blogspot.com/) is in India, and has recommenced blogging. Got me thinking about Quakerism and blogging, and how both (can) involve putting oneself &#8216;out there&#8217; in the sight of God or the public (and, look, I&#8217;m _not_trying to make this comparison go a very long way&#8230;) and being honest about oneself. I guess that&#8217;s why I first started blogging: to not hide anything; to be honest. And there&#8217;s something about the honesty of Quakers that is very different from what is usually thought of as &#8216;honesty&#8217;, I think. Something about how God<sup><a href='#note-265'>*</a></sup> knows us utterly and completely, and so duplicity is impossible; if impossible there, and if the Light is to shine on every moment and place of our lives, then dishonesty really does seem to be ungodly.

The blogging parallel is just that one is writing for an audience that includes one&#8217;s family, future employers, friends, exs, and everyone else, and so putting up the usual differing social faces is futile. What I write here, I don&#8217;t really care who reads. 

(Not a very exciting parallel, then.)

<p style="margin-top:2em;font-size:smaller">
  <a name="note-265">*</a> I use the word &#8216;God&#8217; really as something of a convenience: I&#8217;m not usually given to thinking about the-divine-spirit-of-all-things in any biblical sense.
</p>

<p style="text-align:center">
  * * *
</p>

Lastly, I just want to make a note here, for my own sake really, that I am very much missing Canberra at the moment. Don&#8217;t know why I mention it, but there you have it. Now I&#8217;ll get back to that code &#8230; hmm, or Little Creatures&#8230;