---
id: 1473
title: My new Kobo Mini
date: 2013-03-25T20:26:09+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1473
permalink: /2013/03/25/kobo/
views:
  - "13999"
dsq_thread_id:
  - "3857935981"
categories:
  - Reading
tags:
  - ebooks
  - ereaders
  - Kobo
  - Kobo Mini
  - Linux
  - reviews
  - syncing
  - Ubuntu
---
Today I bought a Kobo Mini ereader. It&#8217;s lovely: small and simple, feeling light and nice to touch. It&#8217;s got an on button on the top edge, and a USB plug on the bottom; the rest is screen, bezel, and back (the latter two of a sort of micro-fluffy textured plastic). So far, so good.

I bought it because I want to read Wikisource texts offline and away from the computer, and I don&#8217;t like the idea of continuing to print them out. It&#8217;s nice to proofread on paper, perhaps, but then carrying A4 pages around in manilla folders isn&#8217;t very good (for reading on the bus and whatnot). I don&#8217;t think it&#8217;s too hard to make notes about corrections in my notepad, so long as I give a suitable amount of context.

Anyway, the second thing about the Mini, after it&#8217;s pleasing appearance: it won&#8217;t _work_ until it&#8217;s been &#8216;activated&#8217;! What on earth&#8217;s the point of that, other than to attempt to force me into buying books from some particular company or other?! Ridiculous! However, do it I must, if I want to read anything else — so I registered, and stumbled around in the Kobo Desktop application&#8230;

At first it looked like it mightn&#8217;t actually be possible to just copy the files I wanted to the device (despite it most sensibly mounting as a little external storage thingo), but it turned out that one must _first_ activate it and then copy files to it, in order for them to be recognised. The file I&#8217;d copied before activation was ignored, but then after copying another there it kicked it into action and both were listed in the main menu. A relief.

So: all working on Ubuntu now, and I&#8217;ll report back in a few weeks on the actual readish fun of the thing&#8230;.

* * *

**Update:** I wrote [some more about my Kobo](http://samwilson.id.au/2013/07/27/kobo-2) in July.