---
id: 1469
title: Facebook is NOT the web
date: 2013-03-25T06:51:49+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/?p=1469
permalink: /2013/03/25/facebook/
views:
  - "356"
dsq_thread_id:
  - "3857935980"
categories:
  - Open content
tags:
  - articles
  - Facebook
  - internet
  - John Naughton
  - social networking
  - Tim Berners-Lee
  - web
  - world wide web
---
Facebook wants to get people into their clutches, and obscure the fact that there is a world-wide web of _stuff_ out there. They will probably succeed, too; more&#8217;s the pity. Still, I&#8217;ll continue to avoid them, just in case they do require my participation to ensure full world-domination.

[_Facebook and Google spread &#8216;their&#8217; net across the mobile world_, by John Naughton in The Observer, Sunday 24 March 2013:](http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2013/mar/24/facebook-trap-world-in-its-net)

<blockquote cite="http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2013/mar/24/facebook-trap-world-in-its-net">
  <p>
    &#8230;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    It&#8217;s a smart strategy, and it will have one predictable outcome, namely, that many new users of the internet from poor countries will think that Facebook (or Google) is the Internet. This would be a particularly pernicious outcome for those who find themselves inside Facebook&#8217;s walled garden, because it&#8217;s much more comprehensively fenced than anything yet constructed by Google.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Why does this matter? Well, in a way, it comes back to the guys who won the Queen Elizabeth prize. The network that Cerf and Kahn built was deliberately designed as an open, permissive system. Anyone could use it, and if you had an idea that could be realised in software, then the net would do it for you, with no questions asked. Tim Berners-Lee had such an idea – the web – and the internet enabled it to happen. And Berners-Lee made the web open in the same spirit, so Mark Zuckerberg was able to build Facebook on those open foundations.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    But Zuckerberg has no intention of allowing anyone to use Facebook as the foundation for building anything that he doesn&#8217;t control. He&#8217;s kicking away the ladder up which he climbed, in other words.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &#8230;
  </p>
</blockquote>