---
id: 192
title: Turning Over an Old Leaf
date: 2007-11-23T12:10:00+00:00
author: Sam Wilson
layout: post
guid: http://samwilson.id.au/blog/2007/11/23/192/
permalink: /2007/11/23/books/
views:
  - "142"
categories:
  - Reading
tags:
  - binding
  - books
  - ebooks
  - J K Huysmans
  - libraries
  - quiet
  - Reading
---
So here I am, back in the office, and bored again.

I have spent the morning trawling the Arts Full Text database; from the &#8216;Notebooks&#8217; category, to &#8216;Reading and Books&#8217;, and thence to things about binding, I&#8217;ve been remembering that thrill of quiet, sparse, precise, personal times in libraries, with books and a notebook. Nicholson Baker wrote about transcribing to commonplaces (which is pretty much what I see this blog to be). Then an essay about reading aloud caught my attention, and I wondered where my final, aborted, art school woodwork project would be now, had I ever finished it. It was going to be a lectern, not large, but heavy, and built with old wood and all treenailed joints (even the dovetails were pinned through; I can&#8217;t remember why). A thing to own only if one never wished to move house again, I think.

In reading these writings about reading, and they were mostly a half dozen pages or so, I missed a thing from books: pages. I _like_ turning pages, strange as that may sound: each page turned is a milestone (or, really, more like a yard-stone, if such a thing has ever existed; maybe in Huysmans&#8217; journeys to the grog cabinet in _L&agrave;-Bas_ they did), and forms some sort of &#8216;meta-rest&#8217; &mdash; a pause in reading never intended by the author, but imposed by the printer; a gap resolved only from the book-ness of the text. On a screen there is no such thing &mdash; try reading a Project Gutenberg text on-screen, and you quickly get disoriented by the endless _down_, the &#8216;single page&#8217; that has turned a book, a codex, into a perverse scroll that is longer than any that ever kept at Alexandria. I&#8217;ve heard that some of these so-called eBooks solve this problem by necessitating some sort of swiping gesture along the device&#8217;s margin to turn the page, but I doubt it&#8217;s the same. I love turning to a long-shut page in an old book and feeling the binding adjust and fold and present the folio, the sewing showing sometimes, and the hollow back opening smoothly. Running one&#8217;s finger down the fold, to confirm that this is where I&#8217;m reading, that though there may be much past and much to come, _this_ page is now. (Of course, these remarks rarely hold true for a perfect-bound book: but maybe some people get satisfaction from breaking the backs of these wretched modern bricks, or in not being able to open them properly. I don&#8217;t know.)

Now it&#8217;s lunchtime, and I&#8217;m going to walk through the rain to find some lunch somewhere. With luck, a place in which reading will fit. I&#8217;m reading a novel by William Gibson at the moment, so maybe the rotten &#8216;mall&#8217; will do, as at least there I&#8217;ll be out of the rain (and out of the office; I&#8217;m not particularly enamored with this place at the moment, and am thinking of quitting).