---
title: 'Switching an SVN directory to and from an ‘externals’ definition'
date: 2011-12-28T07:14:42+00:00
tags:
  - Programming
  - code
  - externals
  - Project Management
  - revision control
  - Subversion
---
There seems to be quite a few posts out there about how to replace Subversion `externals` definitions with local directories,
but not so much for going the other way. I’m not sure why; it seems to me more likely that one would start off with some small module as part of a bigger repository,
and then at a later date want to move it out to live on its own. I don’t really know what I’m on about, though.

The point being, that I’m working with a `branch` of a project that is having a few of its directories — its current, local, ‘normal’ directories
— replaced by `externals` definitions. That’s all fine and good, but I keep having to `switch` to `trunk` and back again, and there’s the crux:
the directories that are getting turned into externals do not like being switched.

Running the usual `svn sw http://svn.example.com/repo/branches/v2` from the top level of a `trunk` checkout gives the following error:

    Fetching external item into 'lib/foo':
    svn: warning: W155037: Previous operation has not finished; run 'cleanup' if it was interrupted

Running `svn cleanup` complains with:

    svn: E155010: The node '/path-to-repo/lib/foo/file.txt' is not installable

And not even `status` has anything useful to say (throwing instead the same error as above).

A solution (and yes, this post is probably a bit long-winded for such a short snippet of advice;
I can only say that I felt like writing this down this morning because four weeks ago I figured it out
but forgot and I suspect that four weeks hence I’ll have forgotten again, and this morning is one of those moments of verbosity;
blame [Travels with Charley](http://openlibrary.org/works/OL23192W/Travels_with_Charley "Open Library record: Travels with Charley, by John Steinbeck."),
which I was reading over breakfast this morning),
and it’s probably not the ‘proper’ solution because I’m no Subversion hacker
and do rather treat it as magic, but the solution that I use is
(and I’d better put it on it’s own line, because no one’s likely to have read to the end of this paragraph)…

Solution:

Delete the offending directory (as in, `rm -r lib/foo` or what have you), and `update` again.

That’s all.
